 1 . Singapore is one of the most open economy which permits the free movement of labour and capital within the legal framework. It is the most globally connected economy after Hong Kong. The key factor that drove Singapore to the top of the list is trade. As one of the small economies, Singapore relies heavily on international trade, capital flows (including foreign portfolio investments and foreign direct investment) and labour migration for economic growth and prosperity. 


2 . Freer movements of labour and capital is  measured by openness to labour – inflow of foreign workers and foreign talents and capital flows in terms of foreign direct investment and flows of ‘hot money’. With increase in globalization, more investments were brought in to generate growth. Movements of labour and capital become freer. 


3 . Singapore’s dependence on humans as a natural resource has made maintaining a competitive workforce of paramount importance in Singaporean society. There is constant emphasis on providing a sound education, retraining opportunities and institutionalized professional development for its population, hence promoting horizontal and vertical labour mobility. In this aspect, the inflow of foreign workers has expanded aggregate supply in both the short run and long run. 


4 . Benefits from freer movement of labour: The use of foreign talent is not new to Singapore. Foreign talent is needed to boost the economy, create jobs and strengthen the country’s competitiveness. Singapore with its small population could not produce enough talent and foreigners are needed. The larger population has contributed to domestic aggregate demand – increase domestic consumption.


5 . Problems may arise as a result of freer movement of labour: Low-skilled foreign workers caused depression of wages. Government labour reports show that wages of workers such as cleaners and labourers have stayed stagnant or even declined in the past decade, while the wages of higher-skilled workers rose. 


5.1 . To remedy this, the Government is urged to re-examine its policy of bringing in large numbers of low-skilled foreigners to achieve economic growth at all costs. 


5.2 . Brain drain. The migration of the best of our society to another country with seemingly more attractive pay and standard of living is a controversial issue. One remedy is to offer dual citizenship to reduce the brain drain.


5.3 . Globalization has been beneficial in increasing the competitiveness of the local workforce. As a result of the increased fluency in travel and migration between countries, the brightest talents have chosen to work elsewhere. This has created a problem for Singapore as it loses precious resources. 

5.4 . In 2005, Singapore was ranked 21st in net migration. Globalization, while having its advantages in building up a competent workforce, can be seen to have brought about unintended detrimental consequences as the large the foreign workers bring with them different practices which local may not be acustom to causing unhappiness and discontent when jobs are lost to foreigner workers. 


6 . Benefits from freer movement of capital. In relation to capital flows, almost all forms of capital controls and foreign exchange restrictions have been dismantled since 1978. As a consequence of its small open nature, the Singapore economy has often been buffeted by shocks from the external environment such as the global  financial crisis in 2007. 

6.1 . However, FDI has not only added to the stock of domestic capital to finance investment in new development projects, but simultaneously provided access to new technology and managerial and marketing know-how. 


6.2 . Increase in inflow of foreign capital has led to the construction of trade links. Efforts by the Economic Development Board to lure Multi-National Corporations (MNCs) have helped Singapore workforce to gain international expertise from working for and with these foreign companies, for example, Hewlett-Packard Singapore. Free trade agreements also help to build such trade links. Many other MNCs in Singapore such as JP Morgan Chase and Deutsche Bank firmly believe too in sharing their expertise with local employees. By drawing from a pool of foreign expertise made possible only by strengthened trade links like Free Trade Agreements, the Singaporean workforce is built to be competitive, knowledgeable and flexible. Hence, globalization has proven to be beneficial.


6.3 . To draw a distinction between moderating growth and maximizing growth, the kind of foreign investments should not require excessive low-wage labour but generate jobs that are of high value. There is a trade-off between fewer foreigners and higher growth.

6.4 . Despite the fluidity of the economic environment and free capital mobility, Singapore has persistently recorded current account surpluses and exported capital abroad.


7 . Further evaluations of capital inflow into Singapore. Large capital inflows often give rise to increases in money supply and domestic liquidity, appreciation of both nominal and real exchange rates, and acceleration in asset prices. Excessive capital inflows pose the challenges of inflationary pressures and loss of a competitive exchange rate (which could undermine the international competitiveness of its manufacturing sector). Despite the recent increase in capital flows, the Singapore nominal effective exchange rate has been relatively stable due to timely management and reviews by the MAS. 

7.1 . A high import content of about 60% in domestic consumption as well as being a price taker in the international markets imply that Singapore is highly susceptible to imported inflation. 


7.2 . It is thus unsurprising that the exchange rate is considered to be a more effective tool than the interest rate for stabilizing inflation. A unique feature of Singapore’s monetary policy framework is the use of the exchange rate instead of the more conventional benchmark policy interest rate as the key policy operating tool. Singapore, as an international financial center, has opted for free capital and labour mobility.
